=Introduction=
_Lineage Sequence Discovery_ is program made in Perl, using the Gtk2+ toolkit, that aims to simplify the discovery of patterns within biological sequences.

This project is being made under the context of an integration in research grant, sponsored by the [http://alfa.fct.mctes.pt/ FCT]. [http://diogocosta.pt.tl/ Diogo Costa], who received the grant, is working on the project under the supervision of [mailto:jbvieira@ibmc.up.pt Jorge Vieira] and [mailto:nf@ibmc.up.pt Nuno Fonseca] at Instituto de Biologia Molecular e Celular ([http://www.ibmc.up.pt/ IBMC]).

Some external tools are used:
  * [http://cracs.fc.up.pt/~nf/projects/sigdis/ SigDis], by [http://cracs.fc.up.pt/~nf/ Nuno Fonseca], is used to find search patterns in order to get the best results when searching.
  * A simple graphical interface to [http://www.tcoffee.org/Projects_home_page/t_coffee_home_page.html T-Coffee] is also included, to allow the alignment of the positive and negative files from the graphical interface.

=Install Instructions=
==Ubuntu 9.04 (Karmic Koala)==
Just download the .deb file, double-click it to open the Package Installer and then choose 'Install Package'. All dependencies will be automatically installed.

==Fedora 12==
Getting LSD to run on Fedora 12 is a bit trickier, mostly due to inexistent dependencies.

===Installing `T-Coffee`===
To take full advantage of LSD, you'll need `T-Coffee`.
Go to [http://www.tcoffee.org/Projects_home_page/t_coffee_home_page.html `T-Coffee`'s homepage] and download the source package (check the 'Downloads' box -> 'Latest Version'). LSD was tested using version 8.69, but, unless the `T-Coffee`'s command line arguments changed, newer versions should work.
  # Uncompress the file you just downloaded
  # Open a terminal where the 'install' file
  # On the terminal, type
    {{{sudo ./install all}}}
  This ensures you will be able access all modes of `T-Coffee`.

The compiling process will take a while, so go do something else :)

===Installing `Gtk2::SourceView`===
LSD uses the `Gtk2`'s `SourceView` control to show the loaded sequences.

Unfortunatly, and although there are packages of bindings for Ruby and Python, there is no package for the Perl binding!

This means you have to build an RPM for the binding. 
The original Perl binding is located [http://search.cpan.org/~EBASSI/Gtk2-SourceView-1.000/SourceView.pm here].

*In order to save you some time and headaches, I've built the necessary packages for the i686 platform.* 
You can download them from the "Download" section.

  # Install _rpm-build-reb00t-0.1.0-1.n0i.9.fc12.noarch.rpm_
    {{{sudo yum -y --nogpgcheck install rpm-build-reb00t-0.1.0-1.n0i.9.fc12.noarch.rpm}}}

  # Install _rpm-build-reb00t-perl-0.1.0-1.n0i.9.fc12.noarch.rpm_
    {{{sudo yum -y --nogpgcheck install rpm-build-reb00t-perl-0.1.0-1.n0i.9.fc12.noarch.rpm}}}

  # Install _perl-Gtk2-SourceView-1.000-1.n0i.1.fc12.i686.rpm_
    {{{sudo yum -y --nogpgcheck install perl-Gtk2-SourceView-1.000-1.n0i.1.fc12.i686.rpm}}}

===Installing LSD===

Now you should be able to install LSD without any problem!
Double-click the RPM and let the package manager do it's job.